fondation/docs/DOCKER_BUILD_GUIDE.md, before:

# Docker Build Guide - Fondation CLI

## Overview
This guide documents the Docker build process for the Fondation CLI, including solutions to common issues encountered during development.

## Important: Bun vs Alpine Compatibility Issue

### The Problem
When building Docker images for the Fondation CLI, you may encounter this issue:
- **Bun doesn't provide official binaries for Alpine Linux on ARM64 architecture** (common on Apple Silicon Macs)
- The project uses Bun for package management and building
- Traditional Node.js Docker images use Alpine Linux for smaller size

### The Solution
We use the official Bun Docker images (`oven/bun`) instead of Node.js Alpine images. These images:
- Are maintained by the Bun team
- Handle all platform compatibility issues
- Use Debian instead of Alpine (slightly larger but fully compatible)
- Support both AMD64 and ARM64 architectures

## Building the Docker Image

### Prerequisites
- Docker Desktop installed and running
- Access to the monorepo root directory
- Bun installed locally (for development)

### Build Process

1. **Navigate to the monorepo root:**
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/fondation-web-app/fondation
   ```

2. **Build the Docker image:**
   ```bash
   # Using the automated script (recommended)
   bun run build:docker
   
   # Or manually with Docker CLI
   docker build -f packages/cli/Dockerfile.production \
     -t fondation/cli:latest \
     -t fondation/cli:$(date +%Y-%m-%d) \
     .
   ```

   Note: Build from the monorepo root, not the CLI package directory, as it needs access to shared packages.

3. **Verify the build:**
   ```bash
   docker images | grep fondation/cli
   ```

## Multi-Stage Dockerfile Explained

The Dockerfile uses a multi-stage build process:

### Stage 1: Builder
- Uses `oven/bun:1.2.5` as the base image
- Installs all dependencies using `bun install`
- Builds TypeScript code for both shared and CLI packages
- Bundles the CLI using Bun's bundler
- Copies prompt files

### Stage 2: Runtime
- Uses `oven/bun:1.2.5-slim` for smaller size
- Installs only runtime dependencies (bash, curl, git)
- Copies the bundled CLI from the builder stage
- Installs the Claude SDK separately (required for OAuth authentication)

## Authentication with Claude

### ✅ Recommended: Environment Variable Authentication

The Docker container uses environment variables for authentication. This is the **only supported production method**:

1. **Ensure you have a valid token in your .env file:**
   ```bash
   # Check your .env file contains:
   CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN=sk-ant-your-token-here
   ```

2. **Run CLI commands with environment variable:**
   ```bash
   # Source environment and run analyze command
   source .env && docker run --rm \
     -v /path/to/repo:/workspace \
     -v /path/to/output:/output \
     -e CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="$CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN" \
     fondation/cli:latest analyze /workspace --output-dir /output
   ```

3. **For production deployment, use docker-compose:**
   ```bash
   # Use the provided docker-compose file
   source .env && docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
   ```

4. **Test authentication works:**
   ```bash
   # Verify CLI version with authentication
   source .env && docker run --rm \
     -e CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="$CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN" \
     fondation/cli:latest --version
   ```

### ❌ Interactive Authentication (Development Only)

**⚠️ Warning:** Interactive authentication (`docker exec -it ... bunx claude auth`) **does not work reliably** and will fail in:
- Production environments
- CI/CD pipelines  
- Non-interactive environments
- Automated deployments

For **local development only**, you can use:
```bash
# Only works with interactive terminal access
docker run -it --rm fondation/cli:latest sh
# Inside container: bunx claude auth
```

**Always use environment variables for reliable authentication.**

## Common Issues and Solutions

### Issue 1: "npx: executable file not found"
**Problem:** Trying to use `npx` in a Bun-based Docker image
**Solution:** Use `bunx` or `bun x` instead of `npx`

### Issue 2: "Failed to install package @oven/bun-linux-aarch64"
**Problem:** Trying to install Bun in Alpine Linux on ARM64
**Solution:** Use the official Bun Docker images instead of installing Bun manually

### Issue 3: "lockfile had changes, but lockfile is frozen"
**Problem:** The lockfile differs between local and Docker environments
**Solution:** Remove `--frozen-lockfile` flag in Docker builds, or regenerate lockfile

### Issue 4: Build takes too long or hangs
**Problem:** The bundling script might be stuck
**Solution:** Use Bun's built-in bundler directly instead of complex build scripts

## Testing the Docker Image

### Basic Test
```bash
docker run --rm fondation/cli:latest --version
```

### Analyze Command Test
```bash
# Create a test repository
mkdir -p /tmp/test-repo
echo "console.log('test');" > /tmp/test-repo/index.js

# Run analysis
docker run --rm \
  -v /tmp/test-repo:/workspace \
  -v /tmp/output:/output \
  fondation/cli:authenticated \
  analyze /workspace --output-dir /output
```

## Production Deployment

### Using the Authenticated Image
The worker service needs to use the authenticated Docker image:

```bash
# In your worker configuration
FONDATION_WORKER_IMAGE=fondation/cli:authenticated
```

### Docker Compose Example
```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  worker:
    image: fondation/cli:authenticated
    environment:
      - CONVEX_URL=${CONVEX_URL}
      - NODE_ENV=production
    volumes:
      - ./workspaces:/workspace
      - ./outputs:/output
    command: worker
```

## Maintenance

### Updating the CLI
1. Make changes to the CLI code
2. Rebuild the Docker image with a new tag
3. Re-authenticate if Claude SDK was updated
4. Update the worker service to use the new image

### Cleaning Up Old Images
```bash
# List all Fondation images
docker images | grep fondation

# Remove old images (keep authenticated ones)
docker rmi fondation/cli:old-tag

# Remove dangling images
docker image prune -f
```

## Key Learnings

1. **Always use Bun-native commands** in Bun Docker images (bunx instead of npx)
2. **Build from monorepo root** to access all packages
3. **Multi-stage builds** keep the final image size reasonable
4. **Document platform-specific issues** for team members on different architectures
5. **Test authentication** before marking an image as production-ready
6. **Understand execution methods**:
   - `bun run script-name` - Runs npm scripts defined in package.json
   - `bun file.mjs` - Directly executes a bundled JavaScript file with Bun runtime
   - The Docker image uses Bun as the runtime (node is a symlink to bun)
   - Use `bun` for bundled executables, `bun run` for development scripts

## References

- [Bun Docker Images](https://hub.docker.com/r/oven/bun)
- [Docker Multi-Stage Builds](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/)
- [Claude SDK Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/docs/claude-sdk)

---

Last Updated: 2025-08-31
Tested On: macOS (Apple Silicon), Docker Desktop 4.x

Commit message:

feat: Implement Doppler secrets management - Phase 1 & 2 complete
✅ Phase 1: Foundation Setup
- Doppler CLI authenticated (v3.75.1)
- Created fondation project with dev/staging/production environments
- Imported 30 secrets from .env files to dev_local config
- Secured CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN and other critical secrets

✅ Phase 2: Development Integration
- Updated package.json with Doppler-wrapped commands
- Added fallback commands for non-Doppler environments
- Created validation script to verify secret format
- Added utility commands for secret management

🔐 Security Improvements:
- Eliminated plain-text OAuth tokens from .env files
- Centralized secret management with audit trails
- All secrets now injected at runtime via Doppler

📋 Next Steps:
- Phase 3: Docker integration
- Phase 4: CI/CD pipeline
- Phase 5: Production deployment

fondation/docs/DOCKER_BUILD_GUIDE.md, after:

# Docker Build Guide - Fondation CLI

## Overview
This guide documents the Docker build process for the Fondation CLI, including solutions to common issues encountered during development.

## Important: Bun vs Alpine Compatibility Issue

### The Problem
When building Docker images for the Fondation CLI, you may encounter this issue:
- **Bun doesn't provide official binaries for Alpine Linux on ARM64 architecture** (common on Apple Silicon Macs)
- The project uses Bun for package management and building
- Traditional Node.js Docker images use Alpine Linux for smaller size

### The Solution
We use the official Bun Docker images (`oven/bun`) instead of Node.js Alpine images. These images:
- Are maintained by the Bun team
- Handle all platform compatibility issues
- Use Debian instead of Alpine (slightly larger but fully compatible)
- Support both AMD64 and ARM64 architectures

## Building the Docker Image

### Prerequisites
- Docker Desktop installed and running
- Access to the monorepo root directory
- Bun installed locally (for development)

### Build Process

1. **Navigate to the monorepo root:**
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/fondation-web-app/fondation
   ```

2. **Build the Docker image:**
   ```bash
   # Using the automated script (recommended)
   bun run build:docker
   
   # Or manually with Docker CLI
   docker build -f packages/cli/Dockerfile.production \
     -t fondation/cli:latest \
     -t fondation/cli:$(date +%Y-%m-%d) \
     .
   ```

   Note: Build from the monorepo root, not the CLI package directory, as it needs access to shared packages.

3. **Verify the build:**
   ```bash
   docker images | grep fondation/cli
   ```

## Multi-Stage Dockerfile Explained

The Dockerfile uses a multi-stage build process:

### Stage 1: Builder
- Uses `oven/bun:1.2.5` as the base image
- Installs all dependencies using `bun install`
- Builds TypeScript code for both shared and CLI packages
- Bundles the CLI using Bun's bundler
- Copies prompt files

### Stage 2: Runtime
- Uses `oven/bun:1.2.5-slim` for smaller size
- Installs only runtime dependencies (bash, curl, git)
- Copies the bundled CLI from the builder stage
- Installs the Claude SDK separately (required for OAuth authentication)

## Authentication with Claude

### ✅ Recommended: Environment Variable Authentication

The Docker container uses environment variables for authentication. This is the **only supported production method**:

1. **Ensure you have a valid token in your .env file:**
   ```bash
   # Check your .env file contains:
   CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="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"
   ```

2. **Run CLI commands with environment variable:**
   ```bash
   # Source environment and run analyze command
   source .env && docker run --rm \
     -v /path/to/repo:/workspace \
     -v /path/to/output:/output \
     -e CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="$CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN" \
     fondation/cli:latest analyze /workspace --output-dir /output
   ```

3. **For production deployment, use docker-compose:**
   ```bash
   # Use the provided docker-compose file
   source .env && docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
   ```

4. **Test authentication works:**
   ```bash
   # Verify CLI version with authentication
   source .env && docker run --rm \
     -e CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="$CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN" \
     fondation/cli:latest --version
   ```

### ❌ Interactive Authentication (Does Not Work)

**⚠️ Warning:** Interactive authentication (`docker exec -it ... bunx claude auth`) **does not work in Docker containers**.

The Claude CLI requires OAuth token authentication via environment variable when running in containers.

**Always use the `CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN` environment variable for Docker authentication.**

## Common Issues and Solutions

### Issue 1: "npx: executable file not found"
**Problem:** Trying to use `npx` in a Bun-based Docker image
**Solution:** Use `bunx` or `bun x` instead of `npx`

### Issue 2: "Failed to install package @oven/bun-linux-aarch64"
**Problem:** Trying to install Bun in Alpine Linux on ARM64
**Solution:** Use the official Bun Docker images instead of installing Bun manually

### Issue 3: "lockfile had changes, but lockfile is frozen"
**Problem:** The lockfile differs between local and Docker environments
**Solution:** Remove `--frozen-lockfile` flag in Docker builds, or regenerate lockfile

### Issue 4: Build takes too long or hangs
**Problem:** The bundling script might be stuck
**Solution:** Use Bun's built-in bundler directly instead of complex build scripts

## Testing the Docker Image

### Basic Test
```bash
docker run --rm fondation/cli:latest --version
```

### Analyze Command Test
```bash
# Create a test repository
mkdir -p /tmp/test-repo
echo "console.log('test');" > /tmp/test-repo/index.js

# Run analysis with authentication
docker run --rm \
  -e CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="${CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN}" \
  -v /tmp/test-repo:/workspace \
  -v /tmp/output:/output \
  fondation/cli:latest \
  analyze /workspace --output-dir /output
```

## Production Deployment

### Using Docker with Authentication
The worker service uses the standard image with token authentication:

```bash
# In your worker configuration
FONDATION_WORKER_IMAGE=fondation/cli:latest
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN="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"
```

### Docker Compose Example
```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  worker:
    image: fondation/cli:latest
    environment:
      - CONVEX_URL=${CONVEX_URL}
      - CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN=${CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN}
      - NODE_ENV=production
    volumes:
      - ./workspaces:/workspace
      - ./outputs:/output
    command: worker
```

## Maintenance

### Updating the CLI
1. Make changes to the CLI code
2. Rebuild the Docker image with a new tag
3. Ensure `CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN` is set in environment
4. Update the worker service to use the new image

### Cleaning Up Old Images
```bash
# List all Fondation images
docker images | grep fondation

# Remove old images
docker rmi fondation/cli:old-tag

# Remove dangling images
docker image prune -f
```

## Key Learnings

1. **Always use Bun-native commands** in Bun Docker images (bunx instead of npx)
2. **Build from monorepo root** to access all packages
3. **Multi-stage builds** keep the final image size reasonable
4. **Document platform-specific issues** for team members on different architectures
5. **Test with OAuth token** before marking an image as production-ready
6. **Understand execution methods**:
   - `bun run script-name` - Runs npm scripts defined in package.json
   - `bun file.mjs` - Directly executes a bundled JavaScript file with Bun runtime
   - The Docker image uses Bun as the runtime (node is a symlink to bun)
   - Use `bun` for bundled executables, `bun run` for development scripts

## References

- [Bun Docker Images](https://hub.docker.com/r/oven/bun)
- [Docker Multi-Stage Builds](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/)
- [Claude SDK Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/docs/claude-sdk)

---

Last Updated: 2025-08-31
Tested On: macOS (Apple Silicon), Docker Desktop 4.x
